TEMPERATURE  CONVERTER

This is a Temperature converter web application built using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Temperature Converter A temperature converter helps in the conversion of the measurement units of the temperature recorded in a particular unit. Temperature expresses the degree of heat or cold of a solid, liquid, or gas. Temperature is measured using a thermometer. While Kelvin (K) is the SI unit of temperature, people generally use Centigrade or Celsius (°C) and Fahrenheit (°F) to measure temperature.

For example, the lowest practical temperature on Earth is -273.15 degrees Celsius. Celsius is a measure of temperature. This recording can be represented in Kelvin as 0 K. We use temperature converter to find the different readings of a given temperature on different unit measuring scales.

Define Temperature Converter A temperature converter helps convert the temperature between Fahrenheit and Celsius scale. Temperature is measured using a thermometer. While Kelvin (K) is the SI unit of temperature, people generally use Centigrade or Celsius (°C) and Fahrenheit (°F) to measure temperature. The temperature converter formula is used to convert Celsius to Fahrenheit.

Units of Temperature Different units can be used to record the temperature. The three different units used for measuring temperature are Celsius (°C) Fahrenheit (°F), and Kelvin (K). Kelvin is the SI unit of measuring temperature, whereas Fahrenheit and Celsius are commonly used scales.

Celsius Celsius scale was Invented in 1742 by Swedish astronomer Anders Celsius and hence named after him. Celsius, also called centigrade, is based on the freezing point of water which is 0°, and the boiling point of water which is 100° The temperature in celsius is represented with °C. Normal human body temperature is 37°C.

Fahrenheit The Fahrenheit scale is a temperature scale developed by Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit and hence named after him. This scale has the boiling point of water at 212° F and the freezing point at 32° F. The temperature in Fahrenheit is represented with °F. The normal human body temperature is 98.6°F.

Kelvin Kelvin is the SI unit of temperature. The unit symbol is K. It is named after the physicist William Thomson, 1st Baron Kelvin (1824–1907). Here the degree symbol ° is not used to represent the temperature, unlike in Celsius or Fahrenheit.

Formula for Converting Temperature Scales Temperature reading given in one unit can be converted into the other using certain conversion formulas. These conversion formulas can be studied as,

Celsius to Fahrenheit Conversion Fahrenheit to Celsius Conversion Celsius to Kelvin Conversion Fahrenheit to Kelvin Conversion

Temperature conversion formulas

Celsius to Fahrenheit Conversion Temperature recorded in celsius can be represented in its fahrenheit equivalent using the Celsius to Fahrenheit conversion formula. The temperature converter formula to convert celsius to fahrenheit is given by,

°F = (9/5) × (°C) + 32

Fahrenheit to Celsius Conversion Temperature recorded in Fahrenheit can be represented in its celsius equivalent using the Fahrenheit to Celsius conversion formula. The formula to convert Fahrenheit to celsius is given by,

°C = (5/9) × (°F − 32)

Celsius to Kelvin Conversion Temperature recorded in Celsius can be represented in its Kelvin equivalent using the Celsius to Kelvin conversion formula. The formula to convert Celsius to Kelvin is given by,

K = °C + 273.15

Fahrenheit to Kelvin Conversion Temperature recorded in Fahrenheit can be represented in its Kelvin equivalent using the Fahrenheit to Kelvin conversion formula. The formula to convert Fahrenheit to Kelvin is given by,

K = °F + 457.87